external control is where we use
external records or CDs to control
playback of the music and torque and
it's really easy to set up you basically
just have to do two things
select the inputs from your audio
interface where your turntables or CDs
are connected and then enabling external
control in the preferences so you begin
by opening torques preferences making
sure that we've got the control inputs
selected here input 1 & 2 is used for
the left turntable input 3 & 4 is choose
from the right table you can always
click and reassign if you'd like and
then by clicking on the middle tab we
bring up the external control
preferences and the first step is to
just enable external control by choosing
yes at the top now when I put the needle
on the record and press play we're gonna
see on screen a number of values start
reading and this shows that the timecode
is working properly error index should
always be a nice low number indicating
that you've got good records and good
needles if this number turns red for any
reason replace your records or needles
or check your connections because the
noise is interfering with the signals
that are coming from the records now
when we close this we can see that the
music is tracking the motion of the
vinyl right now if I stop the record the
music stops if I run it backwards music
goes backwards and it's just like using
a real record you can scratch and do all
the things you normally do now right now
we are in absolute mode which is shown
on screen by this icon right here on the
left it shows two arrows pointing in to
a line that means that any time I lift
the needle and place in a different
location we see the music actually moves
to follow it we can see that using this
little yellow line in the overview
waveform I'll move back towards the
beginning of the record and then we see
that the line continues to move forward
back to the beginning of the record as
well
now we also have another mode called
relative mode click the absolute mode
button and the arrows change indicating
that we're now in relative mode what
ends up happening is that torque only
follows the movement of the record
forward and backward if you're to lift
the needle and put it in a different
location the music restarts from where
it left off so this is nice and a needle
happens to skip or anything like that
your music will stay in the same place
just like that
and then switching back into absolute
mode will make the music jump to the
current location of the needle now there
are a couple times when using torque
that the mode will switch automatically
into relative mode and that will occur
anytime you're jumping to a new location
and the song or doing anything that
breaks the location of the music from
where the needle is on the record an
example of that is creating a loop when
I create a loop here the music is
looping the needle is still moving
forward through the record but the music
is staying in place we can see right
here that the button has changed into
relative mode automatically that way the
music keeps going and you don't have any
conflicts when you turn off the loop it
just keeps going from right where it was
and you're still free to scratch but you
are not able to riku into a new location
using the needle if you need to go to a
new location just click in the overview
waveform and jump to another area
another thing that can trigger this is
using quick cues so if I were to set a
quick cue right here when I jump back to
that quick cue the deck is automatically
going to turn into relative mode because
now the music no longer corresponds to
the position of the needle on the record
but you can still see that the music
responds so you're still free to scratch
and do any other kind of manipulations
that you normally do with the record
another feature that we've built in here
is run out protection in case your
needle is near the end of the record but
you still have a lot of time left in
your song the music will not stop when
the control signals run out on the
record the music will continue to play
and you'll be free to lift the needle
move it back near the beginning of the
record again and then regain control of
the music for example lift the needle
place it near the beginning of the
record let it sit there for a moment and
then you get control of the music again
so you can keep doing that over and over
again running to the middle moving it
back to the beginning again and music
will never stop